# Markdown Formula
*markdown formula* is a Visual Studio Code extension which evaluates Excel-like formulas in markdown tables. To make markdown readable with other parsers and to emphazise that the cell value is the output of a formula, link style formatting is used to create a formula. The structure of a *markdown formula* consist of two parts:

```
    [VALUE](#FORMULA)
```

Here, "#FORMULA" is the Excel-like formula which will be evaluated. The hash symbol (#) is used to identify the *markdown-formula* and it is a replacement for '=' sign in Excel formulas. The purpose of using '#' instead of '=' is to take advantage of the URI fragments and create valid URL address from the given formulas. The "VALUE" is the result of the "#FORMULA" and automatically generated by this extension. All the calculations are fulfilled via the popular open-source library [HyperFormula](https://handsontable.github.io/hyperformula/). 

Using the Excel-like naming convention, table columns are addressed with letters (A,B,...) and the table rows are addressed with numbers (1,2,..). 

*markdown formula* parses all the tables in the current document and seperates them as sheets. If a comment line ('\<!-- NAME -->') exist just before the table header, it is assigned as the sheetname for the table. If a comment line does not exist, the sheet name is automatically generated as "Sheet#N" where the #N is the zero based order of the table in the document.

## Basic Example
In this basic example, we have a table which consist of five rows and three columns. The last column of the first two rows (namely C1 and C2) are used to construct the (C3:C5) rows.

<!-- table1 -->
| name           | formula         | values                 |
| -------------- | --------------- | ---------------------- |
| three          | -               | 3                      |
| eight          | -               | 8                      |
| summation      | #SUM(C1:C2)     | [11](#SUM(C1:C2))      |
| multiplication | #C1*C2          | [24](#C1*C2)           |
| average        | #AVERAGE(C1:C2) | [5.5](#AVERAGE(C1:C2)) |

## Using Cells From Other Sheets
In this example, we will use the cells of the previous table in our current table.

<!-- table2-->
| name                  | formula                                   | values1                   | values2                   |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| six and one           | -                                         | 6                         | 1                         |
| summation from table1 | #table1!C3                                | 4                         | [11](#table1!C3)          |
| summation and average | #SUM(C1:D2),#AVERAGE(C1:D2)               | [22](#SUM(C1:D2))         | [5.5](#AVERAGE(C1:D2))    |
| count larger than 3   | #COUNTIF(C1:C3,">3"),#COUNTIF(D1:D3,">3") | [3](#COUNTIF(C1:C3,">3")) | [2](#COUNTIF(D1:D3,">3")) |

## Extension Settings
*markdown formula* has some customization options under the VS Code's settings panel.

- **precisionRounding**: Rounding precision for floating point numbers can be set.
- **includeTableHeaderInCellNumaration**: If set to true, the table header is included as the first row in cell enumaration.
- **calculateOnSave**: If set to true, the formulas on the tables will be recalculated and the tables will be updated before writing the file to the disk.

## How to Use
You have three alternatives to install this extension.

1. Download it from [VS Code Extension Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/vscode).
2. Download the prebuilt version under the [releases](https://github.com/cescript/MarkdownFormula/releases) tab
3. Build it from the source

After installing the extension;
- Open a document which contains markdown tables and formulas
- Save the document to automatically calculate the formulas or Press Ctrl+Shift+P to run a command, write "Calculate all formulas" and press Enter to manually update the formulas
- All the formula cells in your document should be updated with the calculated values